[Music]
welcome to another episode of 7-minute
marketing with Pam my name is p.m.
dinner I love sharing a little dose of
b2b digital content marketing and sales
enablement in seven minutes at a time I
did a session on how to build global
content marketing team I come to
marketing world two years ago Karen
attended that session subsequently she
and I had a conversation on how she
should structure her team she has a
small team which supports several
geographies and she didn't have approved
accounts unfortunately to support the
different local teams on the ground so
she asked me what to do I told that her
team members need to have two roles for
example a writers job is to write
content but that person should also be
responsible for several countries or one
geography region so all her writers are
assigned specific regions or countries
in addition to their regular jobs these
writers are also the local teams main
point of contact for content related
requests or questions so far the dual
roles have worked well in the past two
years however she had noticed that each
writers has different strengths one
writer is very good at block writing and
the other one is super efficient on web
page and the Claddagh copy so she's
considering shuffling writers
responsibilities based on their
strengths she's also thinking about
having the local teams go to different
writers based on their specialties with
these changes in mind
Karen decided to reach out and ask my
opinion well I told her that I totally
understand where she is coming from the
biggest drawback of that option she
shared with me is that the local teams
will need to go to different writers for
different needs it's no longer one point
of contact and based on my experience
working with the local teams they much
prefer to go to one of fewer people at
the headquarters
if all possible for their needs if they
need to go to one writer for blog
writing and another person for the
landing page the headquarters team is
not making the local teams job easy so
when I explain that to Karen she nodded
and actually agree with me well it's not
all lost cause I did tell her to draw
out a new organizational structure
present her ideas to the local teams
explained to them what she has in mind
and solicit their feedback and input
they know that Karen is the final
decision-maker anyway but it's important
to bring them into the process it shall
respect and a sense of collaboration she
told me that she'll follow up with her
local teams to get their feedback and I
told her to keep me posted about a final
decision and you was wonderful to talk
to Karen again marketing resource and
Hakala always finite organizational
structure roles and responsibilities of
team members will shift as the business
strategy and the focus change there is
never a right or one-size-fits old
organizational structure anyway you do
the best you can based on your knees at
that time I share how to build a global
marketing team presentation on my
website and the courses if you are
interested please check it out
oh one more quick note the best time to
evaluate the overall organizational
structure is during your annual planning
your objectives and a strategy from your
annual plan will provide guidance on how
a team should be structured for the
upcoming year if you want to brainstorm
about your content marketing
organizational structure please reach
out anytime again
send me your marketing questions or
thoughts via twitter at Pam dinner so be
well keep hustling until next time
[Music]